termites are natives of the rainforests
but over seven millennia they migrated
to desert regions as well and have an
atop exoskeleton whereas termites do not
so they are very sensitive to changes in
the environment temperature and humidity
or even physical damage so what they do
is they create these large mounds and
they live on the ground the work we've
done is numerical simulations of air
flow insight or might mounted in a pair
of human lungs you suck in air through
the track here and then it would branch
out
but in termite mounds it works in just
the opposite way if there's air coming
in through these surface ducts and these
ducts will merge into a central chimney
and inside the central chimney there's
air also rising from the bottom so from
the nursery whether termite suicide
because of a low pressure that develops
on the leeward side of the termite mound
we creates a suction which sucks out the
mixture of fresh and stale air that's
how they maintain conditions which are
similar to those in the infrared
even in desert we believe that
understanding the mechanics of termite
mounds would help bio-inspired HVAC
system design so heating ventilation and
air conditioning in very large
residential and commercial buildings we
found this very cool natural way of
using atmospheric drafts and having it
cool everything inside the structure so
we believe that you know we could draw
inspiration from from these termites so
if you've never seen a star-nosed mole
before it can be quite shocking probably
the most notable feature is that they
have sort of like these fingers growing
out of their nostrils sort of like how a
dog would sniff for prey on land these
do it at the bottom of swamps by blowing
bubbles out of their nose and the
sucking the bubbles back in really
really fast to pick up odors the first
problem is that the bubble would just
float up if you imagine having the
nostrils at the center and then all
these gaps all around it
if you blow the bubble the bubble is
going to try to rise up through all the
gaps at the same time and then the
surface tension of the bubble keeps the
bubble in one piece that keeps it
centered on the nostril so that the mole
can then suck it back up again so this
behavior if you're not looking for it
then you're probably never going to see
it because it happens in like a tenth of
a second what we're hoping is that if we
better understand how this mole does
this connect it to other characteristics
with
the American water shrew and the Russian
Desmond and we can figure out sort of
core characteristics that we can say
look at another mammal and be like okay
you have what it takes to do underwater
sniffing let's see if you can do it too
because we we suspect that it this this
behavior might actually be much more
common than we think I'm working on the
mixing to prepare toothpaste basically
the most of the of the personal care
product of non-newtonian yes in case of
non-newtonian fluids these have a
viscosity is changing with the shear
rate so with the stress basically that
is applied the idea is to study in
general interaction of solid particles
in non-newtonian matrixes we want to
study all the process from the macro
structure to the macro structures so
they prepared this polymeric gel and
they dilute it with glycerol because no
water has to be used so this is the main
challenge because everything it's very
highly viscous so it's very challenging
then to have a good mixing between the
two phases then all you have the gives
are are added so solid particles too
thick and material or abrasives and all
the flavors and surfactant it seems like
making a cake